<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Prayer of the Flowers</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-prayer-of-the-flowers" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Prayer of the Flowers</h2>
			<p>It was the voice of the flowers on the West wind, the lovable, the old, the lazy West wind, blowing ceaselessly, blowing sleepily, going Greecewards.</p>
			<p>“The woods have gone away, they have fallen and left us; men love us no longer, we are lonely by moonlight. Great engines rush over the beautiful fields, their ways lie hard and terrible up and down the land.</p>
			<p>“The cancrous cities spread over the grass, they clatter in their lairs continually, they glitter about us blemishing the night.</p>
			<p>“The woods are gone, O Pan, the woods, the woods. And thou art far, O Pan, and far away.”</p>
			<p>I was standing by night between two railway embankments on the edge of a Midland city. On one of them I saw the trains go by, once in every two minutes, and on the other, the trains went by twice in every five.</p>
			<p>Quite close were the glaring factories, and the sky above them wore the fearful look that it wears in dreams of fever.</p>
			<p>The flowers were right in the stride of that advancing city, and thence I heard them sending up their cry. And then I heard, beating musically up wind, the voice of Pan reproving them from Arcady⁠—</p>
			<p>“Be patient a little, these things are not for long.”</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
